Add random ray support (#1305)
neams-th-coe/cardinal: doc/content/tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell.md

# LWR Pincell with OpenMC's Random Ray Solver

In this tutorial, you will learn:

- How to convert a continuous energy Monte Carlo model to a multi-group [!ac](TRRM) model
- How to couple OpenMC's [!ac](TRRM) solver to MOOSE with a fission heat source and temperature feedback
- The advantages and disadvantages of [!ac](TRRM) compared to continuous energy Monte Carlo

To access this tutorial,

```
cd cardinal/tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell
```

> !alert! note title=Previous Experience

Reviewer: I think this alert can be removed - if we move this tutorial onto the root tutorial page, but lower than the multiphysics tutorials (number 7 currently), then I think it's implied that some familiarity with the other items is needed. For instance, we don't have a warning like this on any other tutorials (IIRC)

In this tutorial, we assume that the user is familiar with coupling OpenMC to MOOSE in
Cardinal for [!ac](LWR) problems. If you haven't done so already, we recommend that you
complete the [continuous energy LWR pincell tutorial](pincell1.md) before continuing.
!alert-end!

## Geometry and Computational Models id=model_1

> This model consists of a single UO@2@ pincell from a continuous energy version of the 3D

Reviewer: I haven't built the docs, but does the `@` put the 2 as a subscript?

Author: Yep. `@` is the key for a subscript in MOOSEDown

C5G7 benchmark in [!cite](c5g7). Instead of using the multi-group cross sections from the
C5G7 benchmark specifications, the material properties in [!cite](c5g7_materials) are used
to demonstrate conversion from a continuous energy model to a multi-group [!ac](TRRM)
model. The pincell consists of a UO@2@ fuel pellet clad with Zr. The pin is surrounded by
borated water, and there is a He gap between the fuel and cladding. The relevant dimensions
of the problem can be found in [table1].

!table id=table1 caption=Geometric specifications for the [!ac](LWR) pincell
| Parameter | Value (cm) |
| :- | :- |
| Fuel pellet outer radius | 0.4095 |
| Fuel clad inner radius | 0.418 |
| Fuel clad outer radius | 0.475 |
| Pin pitch | 1.26 |
| Fuel height | 200 |

> A total core power of 3000 MWth is assumed uniformly distributed among 273 rodded fuel assemblies,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A total core power of 3000 MWth is assumed to be uniformly distributed among 273 rodded fuel assemblies,
```

each with 264 pins (which do not have a uniform power distribution due to the control rods and guide
tubes). The tallies added by Cardinal will therefore be normalized according to the per-pin power:

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:1}
q_{pin}=\frac{3000\text{\ MWth}}{n_a n_p}
\end{equation}

where $n_a=273$ is the number of fuel assemblies in the core and $n_p=264$ is the number of pins per
assembly. This tutorial considers heat conduction within the fuel and the cladding, but does not model

> heat transport in the coolant. Instead, a convective heat flux boundary condition ($h = 1000$ W m^-2^ K)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
heat transport in the coolant. Instead, a convective heat flux boundary condition ($h = 1000$ W m$^{-2}$ K$^{-1}$)

with the following fluid temperature

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:2}
T_{fluid}(z) = T_{inlet} + (T_{outlet} - T_{inlet})\left(\frac{z + L/2}{L}\right)
\end{equation}

> is applied to the outer surface of the cladding. The common parameters for the model can be found in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
applied to the outer surface of the cladding. The common parameters for the model can be found in
```

> is applied to the outer surface of the cladding. The common parameters for the model can be found in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is applied to the outer surface of the cladding. Although simplistic, this lets us focus this tutorial on [!ac](TRRM) and its unique features, while removing some complexity of including a fluids solver (which you can extend should it be desired). The common parameters for the model can be found in
```

> `common.i`/`common.py`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`common.i`:
```

Reviewer: I don't think the reader needs to know about `common.py` when reading the tutorial, otherwise I feel like we need to explain what the difference of the files is (none) and it may get in the weeds fast

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/common.i

### Continuous Energy OpenMC Model id=openmc_ce

OpenMC's Python [!ac](API) is used to generate the [!ac](CSG) model for this [!ac](LWR) pincell. We begin
by defining a helper function, `build_sr_pin`, which we will use to subdivide the [!ac](CSG) region representing
the UO@2@ pellet portion of the pincell. This serves two purposes: i) to improve the resolution
of the temperature feedback sent to OpenMC, and ii) to apply spatial discretization for [!ac](TRRM). The
function subdivides the radial dimension of a cylindrical region with equal-volume subdivisions, and the

> azimuthal dimension is discretized uniformely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
azimuthal dimension is discretized uniformly.
```

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/make_openmc_model.py
  start=build_sr_pin
  end=main

Afterwards, we define continuous energy material properties for the UO@2@ fuel (`uo2`), Zr cladding (`zr`),
and borated water coolant (`h2o`). Once materials are defined, we create the surfaces and cells necessary
to build the full pincell with [!ac](CSG) in the radial plane. `build_sr_pin` is then used to create a

> universe which is populated with the discretized pincell. In this problem the azimuthal dimension is

Reviewer: if the pin is in a square pitch, then technically it is not symmetric azimuthally (in quarter or 1/8 symmetry yes, but the portions of the pin near the larger water gaps will be different from the portions of the pin closest to the reflecting BCs of the adjacent pin). Let me know if I am misinterpreting what you mean here?

I think it would suffice to just omit the sentence about azimuthal dimension

Author: I agree that the entire pincell itself is not azimuthally symmetric, but the fuel/gap/clad portion is azimuthally symmetric (which is what's being discretized). I'll reword this to make it more clear.

symmetric, so we simply subdivide the fuel into 3 radial regions. The radial geometry is then added
to a lattice to extrude it into 100 layers axially. The lattice is placed in a cell
which applies vacuum boundary conditions on the top and bottom of the pincell, while reflective boundary
conditions are applied on the remaining sides of the geometry. Finally, we add the materials and geometry

> to a model container and set some simulation settings for the continuous energy model. The radial

Reviewer: For CE, `model.materials` does not need to be set anymore (it is legacy behavior, since the presence of materials assigned to regions of the model is adequate to appear in the `materials.xml`/`model.xml`). If that also applies here, then I suggest we just remove the sentence - if it is something alternatively that is specific to random ray, please elaborate a bit more on it

Author: `model.materials` actually does need to be set for `model.convert_to_multigroup`! It's a common gotcha now when building MG models - I'll make this more explicit in the tutorial.

`rr_model = copy.deepcopy(ce_model)` (to avoid overwriting the continuous energy model) and then call
`rr_model.convert_to_multigroup(...)` followed by `rr_model.convert_to_random_ray(...)`.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/make_openmc_model.py
  start=rr_model = copy.deepcopy(ce_model)
  end=## Create a mesh to do cell-under-voxel decomposition of the moderator

`rr_model.convert_to_multigroup(...)` runs a series of OpenMC continuous energy calculations to generate
[!ac](MGXS). We choose the `material_wise` option, which runs the provided model (with no modifications)
to generate [!ac](MGXS) for each material. This is the highest fidelity option provided by the
autoconversion function, taking into account both self-shielding and element-shielding effects. Additionally,
`material_wise` is the only option which supports the generation of [!ac](MGXS) for k-eigenvalue problems (the
other options run fixed source calculations). We select the `CASMO-2` group structure for the energy
discretization to reduce the runtime of this tutorial. This is a fairly coarse group structure; we recommend

> using more energy groups to minimize bias on power distributions and integral quantities as two groups will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using more energy groups to minimize bias in power distributions and integral quantities as two groups will
```

not be sufficient for most problems (without the use of transport equivalences). Finally, we specify
a list of temperatures to use when generating [!ac](MGXS). `convert_to_multigroup` will run a continuous energy
OpenMC simulation for each provided temperature where every material in the model is set to that temperature
(isothermal conditions). This proves to be a severe approximation for multiphysics calculations where large
temperature differences exist between different materials, such as [!ac](LWR) problems (where the
coolant has a temperature of ~600 K and the fuel has a temperature of ~1400 K). We chose to use isothermal
conditions in this tutorial to simplify the generation of [!ac](MGXS) - care should be exercised if using this
option for production calculations. We recommend reading the
[OpenMC user guide](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/random_ray.html#generating-multigroup-cross-sections-mgxs)

> for generating [!ac](MGXS) to review the pros and cons of the autoconvert function. A final choice that we make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for generating [!ac](MGXS) to review the pros and cons of the autoconvert function and to learn how you can generate the [!ac](MGXS) without relying on the autoconvert function. A final choice that we make
```

for [!ac](MGXS) generation is the scattering treatment - we select a P@0@ transport correction (`correction="P0"`)
to minimize bias introduced in the scattering source. This is often sufficient for [!ac](LWR) applications.

> Converting to a random ray model requires minimal user knowledge compared to the multi-group conversion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Converting to a random ray model requires minimal user knowledge.
```

Reviewer: I don't think we need to qualify the statement at all, it's true by itself

OpenMC will examine the bounding box of our pincell to determine the maximum chord length, and set the inactive

> length to that distance. The maximum chord length is often larger then ten mean free paths in reactor applications,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
length to that distance. The maximum chord length is often larger than ten mean free paths in reactor applications,
```

and so
[ray initialization bias](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/methods/random_ray.html#ray-starting-conditions-and-inactive-length)
is wiped away with this choice. The active distance is set to five times the maximum chord length. Unlike the

> conversion to multi-group where [!ac](MGXS) are generated, the selection of the inactive and active ray length

Reviewer: > Unlike the
conversion to multi-group where [!ac](MGXS) are generated

I am unclear on the intent of beginning the sentence with this - earlier, you state that CE runs are used to generate the MGXS (for which the ray lengths are not relevant parameters)?

Author: Reading this again, I'm not really sure of what I was thinking when writing this sentence... 
I've rewritten it to: `The inactive and active
ray lengths can be set to different values if they are found to be insufficient.`

After converting to a [!ac](TRRM) model, we set some discretization parameters specific to our problem. This
includes further source region subdivision of the coolant region using a uniform mesh (known as
[cell-under-voxel source region decomposition](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/random_ray.html#subdivision-of-source-regions)).
This discretization is easy to apply, however it can yield very small source regions near the intersection of the
boundaries of a mesh voxel and a [!ac](CSG) cell (which is less likely to get hit by a ray). This may result in
stability issues in some cases and worse statistics for tallies. An additional disadvantage of this subdivision
approach is that Cardinal cannot map to these regions as they are created on the fly during the simulation
process; we recommend manual subdivision for most multiphysics simulations unless the regions do not require mapped
tallies or temperature/density feedback. We also set the source region discretization to either: i) flat sources,
or ii) linear sources (depending on command line arguments provided to the Python script). Linear sources will result

> in an increase in accuracy for a given geometric discretization at the cost of increasing computational time, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in an increase in accuracy for a given geometric discretization at the cost of increased computational time, and
```

potentially introducing negative source values (which OpenMC will set to zero). These negative values are a symptom
of a very coarse source region discretization. Finally, we set `random_ray['diagonal_stabilization_rho'] = 1.0`

> to ensure our use of a transport correction doesn't destabilize the combined scattering source / power iteration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to ensure our use of a transport correction doesn't destabilize the combined scattering source/power iteration
```

used by [!ac](TRRM).

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/make_openmc_model.py
  start=## Create a mesh to do cell-under-voxel decomposition of the moderator
  end=if __name__ == "__main__":

The flat source random ray model can be generated with,

```bash

> python3 make_openmc_model -r

Reviewer: could we just use `python` throughout?

```

and the linear source model can be generated with,

```bash
python3 make_openmc_model -r --linear
```

### MOOSE Heat Conduction Model id=heat_cond

!include steady_hc.md

Because heat transfer and fluid flow in the borated water is not modeled in this example, heat removal by the fluid
is approximated by setting the outer surface of the cladding to a convection boundary condition,

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:5}
q^{''}=h\left(T-T_{fluid}\right)
\end{equation}

where $h$ and $T_{fluid}$ are described in the model parameters.

!include radiation_gap.md

## Multiphysics Coupling id=couple

### Mesh id=mesh

In this multiphysics model, the heat conduction and neutronics solves use the same mesh. This is generated with a standalone
input file (`solid_mesh.i`):

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid_mesh.i

The pincell is created first with a [PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator](PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md),
where the radial regions have the same radii as the source region discretization we set up in the OpenMC [!ac](CSG)
model. This ensures that we maintain a one-to-one mapping between subdomains in the MOOSE mesh and the OpenMC geometry

> to avoid warping tallies. The mesh is then extruded axially with an [AdvancedExtruderGenerator](AdvancedExtruderGenerator.md).

Reviewer: Is it a requirement to have 1:1 mappings when using TRRM in Cardinal? If not, then please soften the "warping" tallies language to describe what the consequence is - if it is required, then I'd suggest an alert box since that would be new, restrictive behavior that we want to call out

Author: This is not a limitation of the random ray wrapper. The intent of this sentence was to allude back to Figure 2 in the `OpenMCCellAverageProblem` documentation. I've changed the wording to soften it, let me know what you think.

We label the boundary between the fuel and the gap (`fuel_or`), the boundary between the clad and the gap (`clad_ir`),
and the boundary between the clad and the coolant (`clad_or`). These sidesets are used to apply the gap conductance
model and the convective boundary condition in the heat conduction input file. We then delete the gap and coolant blocks

> as they are unused in both the heat conduction application and OpenMC application. Finally, we scale the mesh such that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as they are unused in both the heat conduction and OpenMC applications. Finally, we scale the mesh such that
```

> as they are unused in both the heat conduction and OpenMC applications. Finally, we scale the mesh such that

Reviewer: so, does the tutorial not map the fluid temperature/density into OpenMC (even if not *solving* for those profiles)? The fluid is isothermal in the OpenMC model?

Author: That's right, this tutorial does not apply the fluid temperature in the OpenMC model.

it is in meters (to match the provided thermal properties). The resulting mesh can be found in [rr_solid_mesh]. Note
that this mesh is coarse for the purpose of reducing the computational burden in this tutorial, and requires additional
refinement to improve temperature predictions.

!media rr_solid_mesh.png
  id=rr_solid_mesh
  caption=Solid mesh for the OpenMC and heat conduction problems. Red and white: UO@2@ fuel. Green: Zr clad.
  style=width:50%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;halign:center

To generate the mesh, run

```
cardinal-opt -i solid_mesh.i --mesh-only
```

### Neutronics Input File id=openmc_input

The neutronics physics is solved over the entire domain using OpenMC; the OpenMC wrapping is described in `openmc.i`.
We begin by loading the mesh that OpenMC will receive temperature from the coupled MOOSE application, and on which
OpenMC will write the fission heat source:

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/openmc.i
  block=Mesh

> Next, we define an `AuxVariable` to use to visualize the temperature Cardinal is setting in OpenMC cells, and write

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we define an `AuxVariable` to visualize the temperature Cardinal is setting in OpenMC cells, and write
```

to it with a [CellTemperatureAux](CellTemperatureAux.md) (which queries the cell temperature in the OpenMC geometry):

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/openmc.i

>   start=[AuxVariables]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  start=AuxVariables
```

>   end=[Problem]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  end=Problem
```

Afterwards, we replace the default finite element problem with an [OpenMCCellAverageProblem](OpenMCCellAverageProblem.md).
This class is responsible for initializing OpenMC, setting cell temperatures and densities (with equivalent field
variables on the `[Mesh]`), and writing results from OpenMC tallies to the MOOSE mesh. We start by overriding the

> number of inactive batches, the total number of batches, and the number of particles per batch. A large number of

Reviewer: Is there a compelling reason why the desired values are not just set in the make_openmc_model.py script to begin with? Are different settings desired for the MGXS stage?

Author: To be honest, I just default to writing these in Cardinal input files. There's no compelling reason for or against this.

inactive batches (in this case, 400) are required when running [!ac](TRRM) as both the scattering and fission sources
must be converged. Fewer rays per batch (1000 in this case) are required as rays do not terminate until they reach
the end of the active length (unlike particles, which are killed on absorption). We then specify `scaling = 100.0`
to convert from mesh units (m) to OpenMC units (cm). We also set the pin power used to normalize tally scores.

> Afterwards, we set the cell level of the cell to element mapping to the lowest level in the OpenMC geometry, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, we set the cell level of the cell-to-element mapping to the lowest level in the OpenMC geometry, and
```

Reviewer: "cell level of the cell to" I felt like this could be confusing to someone unfamiliar with the phrases

Author: I've rephrased this to hopefully make it less confusing.

specify that we wish to couple OpenMC to the fuel (`uo2` and `uo2_tri` blocks) with temperature feedback. To speed

> up the rate of convergence and avoid the nonlinear feedback instabilities inherent to [!ac](LWR) multiphysics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up the rate of convergence and avoid the nonlinear feedback instabilities commonly observed in [!ac](LWR) multiphysics
```

Reviewer: the instabilities are not guaranteed, at least theoretically, to be present

calculations, we use constant relaxation with a relaxation factor of 0.5. The final component of the OpenMC
problem setup is to add a [CellTally](CellTally.md) which accumulates `kappa_fission` over `uo2` and `uo2_tri`.
In addition to fission heating tally value, we enable outputs for the heating standard deviation and relative error.
Finally, we disable tally global normalization as it is not supported by the [!ac](TRRM) wrapper.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/openmc.i
  block=Problem

The specification of temperature blocks in the `[Problem]` will add a variable named `temp` to the mesh, which
the [OpenMCCellAverageProblem](OpenMCCellAverageProblem.md) will query to set cell temperatures. To avoid
an initial temperature of zero being sent to OpenMC, we add a [ConstantIC](ConstantIC.md) which sets this field
variable to the average fluid temperature:

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/openmc.i
  block=ICs

> The next set of blocks we add setup the coupling scheme. We add a [TransientMultiApp](TransientMultiApp.md) for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next set of blocks we add sets up the coupling scheme. We add a [TransientMultiApp](TransientMultiApp.md) for
```

the heat conduction solve, which receives fission heating from `heat_source_to_solid` (a
[MultiAppGeneralFieldShapeEvaluationTransfer](MultiAppGeneralFieldShapeEvaluationTransfer.md)) and sends the fuel
temperature to `temp` via `temp_to_openmc` (another
[MultiAppGeneralFieldShapeEvaluationTransfer](MultiAppGeneralFieldShapeEvaluationTransfer.md)). The heat conduction
application is executed after running OpenMC (on `TIMESTEP_END`), resulting in the following coupling scheme:

1. Run OpenMC;
2. Send fission power to heat conduction application (`solid`);
3. Compute fuel temperatures;
4. Send fuel temperatures back to OpenMC;
5. Repeat until fields are converged.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/openmc.i

>   start=[MultiApps]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  start=MultiApps
```

>   end=[Postprocessors]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  end=Postprocessors
```

The final portion of the input file deals with execution, post-processing, and outputs. We use a
[Transient](Transient.md) executioner in this problem to control the number of iterations between
the OpenMC main application and the heat conduction sub-application. In this problem, 5 iterations
are sufficient to converge tally statistics and $k_{eff}$ due to the low variance of [!ac](TRRM).
It should be noted that the problem OpenMC is solving is still a quasi-static k-eigenvalue

> calculation, and the heat conduction simulation is a steady-state event with the use of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calculation, and the heat conduction simulation is a steady-state governing equation with the use of a
```

> calculation, and the heat conduction simulation is steady-state event with the use of a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
calculation, and the heat conduction simulation is a steady-state event with the use of a
```

[Transient](Transient.md) executioner. We add a series of post-processors to monitor the relative
errors of tally variables and report the k-eigenvalue (and its associated standard deviation).
Finally, we select Exodus and CSV output in the `[Outputs]` block.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/openmc.i
  start=[Postprocessors]

### Solid Input File id=solid_input

The heat conduction problem is setup in the `solid.i` input file, and is very similar to the
[continuous energy LWR pincell tutorial](pincell1.md). It begins by loading the previously
generated mesh.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  block=Mesh

Afterwards, nonlinear and auxiliary variables are added for the temperature and heat source
(respectively). This is followed by the addition of kernels to assemble the heat conduction
equation over the fuel and cladding (where the fission heat source `heat` is block
restricted to the fuel).

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i

>   start=[Variables]

Reviewer: since the rest of the documentation in Cardinal does not use the square brackets, let's use that same convention throughout. I made some suggested changes to remove them but there's so many -  a find-and-replace on your end is easier!

  end=[Functions]

We then add a [ParsedFunction](MooseParsedFunction.md) to represent [eq:2], and a
[ConvectiveFluxFunction](ConvectiveFluxFunction.md) to apply the convective boundary condition
to the outer radius of the clad.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  start=[Functions]
  end=[Materials]

A series of [GenericConstantMaterial](GenericConstantMaterial.md) are then added to set the
thermal conductivity of the fuel and cladding, which is followed by the addition of a
[GapHeatTransfer](GapHeatTransfer.md) to set up the gap conductance model.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  start=[Materials]
  end=[Executioner]

Finally, the `[Executioner]` is set to [Transient](Transient.md). As no timestepping parameters
are provided, the heat conduction simulation will execute in lock-step with the OpenMC simulation.

> We add several post-processors to monitor the maximum fueld and cladding temperature, and select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We add several post-processors to monitor the maximum fuel and cladding temperatures, and select
```

Exodus and CSV output in the `[Outputs]` block.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  start=[Executioner]

## Execution and Postprocessing id=results

To run the coupled calculation with [!ac](TRRM) and flat sources,

```bash
python3 make_openmc_model -r
cardinal-opt -i solid_mesh.i --mesh-only
cardinal-opt -i openmc.i --n-threads=4
```

To run with [!ac](TRRM)  and linear sources,

```bash
python3 make_openmc_model -r --linear
cardinal-opt -i solid_mesh.i --mesh-only
cardinal-opt -i openmc.i --n-threads=4
```

and to run the continuous energy reference,

```bash
python3 make_openmc_model
cardinal-opt -i solid_mesh.i --mesh-only
cardinal-opt -i openmc.i --n-threads=4
```

All of the above will use 4 OpenMP threads. To run the simulation
faster, you can increase the number of OpenMP threads or decrease the number of particles. Bear
in mind that decreasing the number of particles may result in a failure to converge when running
[!ac](TRRM) as fewer source regions will be hit on each power iteration. The [!ac](TRRM) solver

> [does not support distributed memory calculations yet](https://github.com/openmc-dev/openmc/pull/3333),

Reviewer: can we add an issue in Cardinal to keep track of the fact that we need to update this sentence once that PR does get merged?

Author: #1356

and so adding extra MPI ranks will not speed up the neutronics calculation as all work is done by
rank zero.

[table2] shows the resulting k-eigenvalues for each [!ac](TRRM) discretization approach compared

> against the continuous energy reference (10000 particles per batch. 1100 batches, 100 inactive batches)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
against the continuous energy reference (10000 particles per batch, 1100 batches, 100 inactive batches)
```

on the first Picard iteration before multiphysics feedback is applied. In general, the single physics
[!ac](TRRM) calculations agree quite well with the continuous energy reference (within three standard
deviations). [table3] shows the k-eigenvalues for each case on the final Picard iteration; the agreement

> is less then stellar and can be attributed to the use of isothermal temperature interpolation tables in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is less than stellar and can be attributed to the use of isothermal temperature interpolation tables in
```

the multiphysics model.

!table id=table2 caption=k-eigenvalue predictions on the initial Picard iteration.
| Method | $k_{eff}$ | $k_{CE} - k_{TRRM}$ (PCM) |
| :- | :- | :- |
| CE Monte Carlo | $1.33133$ | N/A |
| Flat Source | $1.33098$ | $35$ |
| Linear Source | $1.33229$ | $−96$ |

!table id=table3 caption=k-eigenvalue predictions on the final Picard iteration.
| Method | $k_{eff}$ | $k_{CE} - k_{TRRM}$ (PCM) |
| :- | :- | :- |
| CE Monte Carlo | $1.30300$ | N/A |
| Flat Source | $1.28327$ | $1973$ |
| Linear Source | $1.28473$ | $1827$ |

[rr_lwr_radial_comp] plots the center-plane radial fission heating distribution for the different
spatial discretization schemes and compares them with the continuous energy reference on the final
Picard iteration. There is a fairly large discrepancy (up to 10%) which is caused by over-exaggerated
Doppler broadening in the fuel, depressing the center plane power compared to the continuous energy
result. We can confirm this trend by plotting the axial centerline power distribution in
[rr_lwr_axial_comparison]. This shows a 10% under-prediction of power in the core center followed by

> an over-prediction as one moves from the core center towards the vaccum boundary condition. This showcases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an over-prediction as one moves from the core center towards the vacuum boundary condition. This showcases
```

  start=build_sr_pin
  end=main

Afterwards, we define continuous energy material properties for the UO@2@ fuel (`uo2`), Zr cladding (`zr`),
and borated water coolant (`h2o`). Once materials are defined, we create the surfaces and cells necessary
to build the full pincell with [!ac](CSG) in the radial plane. `build_sr_pin` is then used to create a
universe which is populated with the discretized pincell. In this problem the azimuthal dimension of the
fuel pin itself is symmetric, so we simply subdivide the fuel into 3 radial regions. The radial geometry is then added
to a lattice to extrude it into 100 layers axially. The lattice is placed in a cell
which applies vacuum boundary conditions on the top and bottom of the pincell, while reflective boundary
conditions are applied on the remaining sides of the geometry. Finally, we add the materials and geometry
to a model container and set some simulation settings for the continuous energy model. The radial
discretization of the OpenMC [!ac](CSG) geometry can be found in [rr_openmc_cells].

!alert note
For most continuous-energy simulations `model.materials` does not need to be set prior to writing the `model.xml`

> file to disk with `model.export_to_model_xml()`. When using `model.convert_to_multigroup()`, `model.materials`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file to disk with `model.export_to_model_xml()`. However, when using `model.convert_to_multigroup()`, `model.materials`
```

inactive batches (in this case, 400) are required when running [!ac](TRRM) as both the scattering and fission sources
must be converged. Fewer rays per batch (1000 in this case) are required as rays do not terminate until they reach
the end of the active length (unlike particles, which are killed on absorption). We then specify `scaling = 100.0`
to convert from mesh units (m) to OpenMC units (cm). We also set the pin power used to normalize tally scores.
Afterwards, we set the depth in the OpenMC geometry we wish to couple to (`cell_level`), and
specify that we wish to couple OpenMC to the fuel (`uo2` and `uo2_tri` blocks) with temperature feedback. To speed
up the rate of convergence and avoid the nonlinear feedback instabilities commonly observed in [!ac](LWR) multiphysics
calculations, we use constant relaxation with a relaxation factor of 0.5. The final component of the OpenMC
problem setup is to add a [CellTally](CellTally.md) which accumulates `kappa_fission` over `uo2` and `uo2_tri`.
In addition to fission heating tally value, we enable outputs for the heating standard deviation and relative error.

> Finally, we disable tally global normalization as it is not supported by the [!ac](TRRM) wrapper.

Reviewer: Last sentence needs updating?

generated mesh.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  block=Mesh

Afterwards, nonlinear and auxiliary variables are added for the temperature and heat source
(respectively). This is followed by the addition of kernels to assemble the heat conduction
equation over the fuel and cladding (where the fission heat source `heat` is block
restricted to the fuel).

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  start=Variables
  end=Functions

We then add a [ParsedFunction](MooseParsedFunction.md) to represent [eq:2], and a
[ConvectiveFluxFunction](ConvectiveFluxFunction.md) to apply the convective boundary condition
to the outer radius of the clad.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  start=Functions
  end=Materials

A series of [GenericConstantMaterial](GenericConstantMaterial.md) are then added to set the
thermal conductivity of the fuel and cladding, which is followed by the addition of a
[GapHeatTransfer](GapHeatTransfer.md) to set up the gap conductance model.

!listing /tutorials/rr_lwr_pincell/solid.i
  start=Materials
  end=Executioner

Finally, the `[Executioner]` is set to [Transient](Transient.md). As no timestepping parameters

> are provided, the heat conduction simulation will execute in lock-step with the OpenMC simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are provided, the heat conduction simulation will execute in lock-step with the OpenMC simulation because `sub_cycling = true` was set in the `openmc.i` file.
```
